# Oglaf Meta

The purpose of this project is to identify past strips from the __[Oglaf](https://oglaf.com/)__ webcomic,
with the ability to build reading guides based on tags applied to strips.

The project comes with code and a curated assemblage of information:
1. __rguide__: Code to generate a reading list based on tagged titles
2. __html2json__: Code to generate or _update_ metadata about individual strips
3. __tag__: Code to _search_ for strips by tag, and to add/delete tag data
4. __archive.json__: Metadata about past strips as generated by the code in this project
5. __tags.json__: Keywords related to individual strips
6. __characters.png__: A helpful graphic of recurring characters, with names, based on the
original work of [/u/Fraxinopolis](https://old.reddit.com/u/Fraxinopolis) as posted [in this thread](https://old.reddit.com/r/oglaf/comments/ijbsb9/chart_of_recurring_characters/)

I would highly value pull requests with more tag data in tags.json - specifically 
mapping named characters to the strips they appear in.  Feel free to submit pull 
requests if you find errors or discrepancies in this code or the tagging.

## Setup
To set up your environment to run this project on Linux or MacOS:
``` shell
python3 -m venv venv
. venv/bin/activate
pip3 install --upgrade pip
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

## Review the help text
See the tools' options by running:
``` shell
./rguide -h
```
or:
``` shell
./tag -h
```
or:
``` shell
./html2json -h
```

The tools put in a small effort to save you from yourself but, really, the onus is
on you not to shoot yourself in the foot.  I recommend backing up your `archive.json`
and `tags.json` files just in case you go play around and want to revert back.


## Build a reading guide
The reading guide builder generates the titles and URLs for strips that contain __all__
the specified tags.  The list is presented in publication-date order.

Imaging you want to re-read all the great strips starring Ivan:
``` shell
./rguide -t ivan
```

Now imagine you only want to re-read the sweet strips with both Ivan _and_ Mistress:
``` shell
./rguide -t ivan -t mistress
```


## Working with tags
Please note that when searching, the tags you specify are _not_ case sensitive.  However
when you add tags, they're added exactly as you type them.  Consider checking the tag set
before you add any and try to be consistent with the capitalization style.

Also note if you're using tags with spaces or other characters your system may
interpret as command-line special characters, wrap those tags in quotes!

Search for a tag:
``` shell
./tag -title cumsprite -t Mistress -t Ivan
```

Search for a tag with spaces in its name:
``` shell
./tag -s -t "the golden hind"
```

Add a tag to one or more strips:
``` shell
./tag -a -title cumsprite -t Mistress -t Ivan
```

Dump a list of all tags:
``` shell
./tag -l
```

## Updating Archive Data (DEFAULT behavior)
If you already have an _archive.json_ (which you should, since one comes with this project),
but you want to update it with new strip data, you can do it with:
```shell
./html2json -u
```

## Generating all new Archive Data
Maybe you want to rebuild _archive.json_?  Not to despair, you can do it with: 
``` shell
./html2json -r
```

## Reference
I found the following sites helpful while working on this project:
- https://old.reddit.com/r/oglaf
- https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Characters/Oglaf

